New ai extensions docs (#43300)
dotnet/docs: docs/ai/ai-extensions.md

---

> title:  Unified AI building blocks for .NET

Reviewer: This is fine as a separate document for now, but would it make sense for this to eventually be part of the overview as we pivot to focus on M.E.AI in this docset?

Author: I plan to add smaller content updates to other parts of these docs such as the ecosystem/tooling docs to wrap in MEAI more cohesively, that'll be a separate PR. Eventually yes this should be a bigger focus though.

description: Learn how to developer with unified AI building blocks for .NET using Microsoft.Extensions.AI and Microsoft.Extensions.AI.Abstractions libraries
ms.date: 11/04/2024
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.custom: devx-track-dotnet, devx-track-dotnet-ai
author: alexwolfmsft
ms.author: alexwolf
---

# Unified AI building blocks for .NET using Microsoft.Extensions.AI

The .NET ecosystem provides abstractions for integrating AI services into .NET applications and libraries using the [`Microsoft.Extensions.AI`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.AI) and [`Microsoft.Extensions.AI.Abstractions`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.AI.Abstractions) libraries. The .NET team also enhanced the core `Microsoft.Extensions.*` libraries with these abstractions for .NET Generative AI applications and libraries. In the sections ahead, you learn:

- Core concepts and capabilities of the `Microsoft.Extensions.AI` library.
- How to work with AI abstractions in your apps and the benefits they offer.
- Essential AI middleware concepts.

## What is the Microsoft.Extensions.AI library?

> `Microsoft.Extensions.AI` is a set of core .NET libraries created in collaboration with developers across the .NET ecosystem, including Semantic Kernel. These libraries provide a unified layer of C# abstractions for interacting with AI services, such as small and large language models (SLMs and LLMs), embeddings, and middleware.

Reviewer 2: The package is referred to as a library on line 15 and then a set of libraries here. This might be confusing to readers.

## Building with Microsoft.Extensions.AI

You can start building with `Microsoft.Extensions.AI` in the following ways:

- **Library Developers**: If you own libraries that provide clients for AI services, consider implementing the interfaces in your libraries. This allows users to easily integrate your NuGet package via the abstractions.
- **Service Consumers**: If you're developing libraries that consume AI services, use the abstractions instead of hardcoding to a specific AI service. This approach gives your consumers the flexibility to choose their preferred service.
- **Application Developers**: Use the abstractions to simplify integration into your apps. This enables portability across models and services, facilitates testing and mocking, leverages middleware provided by the ecosystem, and maintains a consistent API throughout your app, even if you use different services in different parts of your application.
- **Ecosystem Contributors**: If you're interested in contributing to the ecosystem, consider writing custom middleware components.

> We have a set of samples in the [dotnet/ai-samples](https://aka.ms/meai-samples) GitHub repository to help you get started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started, see the samples in the [dotnet/ai-samples](https://aka.ms/meai-samples) GitHub repository.
```

For an end-to-end sample using `Microsoft.Extensions.AI`, see [eShopSupport](https://github.com/dotnet/eShopSupport).

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```

> - [Build an AI chat app with .NET](/dotnet/ai/quickstarts/get-started-openai)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Build an AI chat app with .NET](./quickstarts/get-started-openai.md)
```
